---
layout: post
title: "Windows Manual"
description: "Outline how to use windows 7"
category: windows
tags: [Windows, Manual]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## Multi-User remote login
Download [Remote Server Administration Tools](http://www.microsoft.com/download/en/details.aspx?displaylang=en&id=7887)

    安装升级包后，在控制面板--程序和功能--打开或关闭WINDOWS功能---远程服务器管理工具--角色管理工具--远程桌面服务工具，选中前面的选择框。
    
    在开始--命令框输入cmd,在弹出的Dos界面输入netstat -na ,如果出现 3389 端口，就说明远程终端已经启动了。
    
    1.下载补丁[UniversalTermsrvPatch]()，功能就是去除单用户登陆的限制，允许多人多用户同时并行访问登录。
    2.需要管理员权限。右键点程序，选择以管理员身份运行。
    3.破解后需要重启生效。
    4.备份文件： \windows\system32\termsrv.dll.backup.(如果想还原设置请将备份文件改名为termsrv.dll替换破解的文件即可)
    5.远程桌面的其它可能的设置：
    运行gpedit.msc打开组策略，计算机配置－管理模板－Windows组件－远程桌面服务－远程桌面会话主机-连接-“限制连接数量”，如果将状态设置为“禁用”或“未配置”，则在“组策略”级别上不强制限制连接的数量。

(Read more: <http://blog.163.com/zangyunling@126/blog/static/1646245052012312475824/>)

## Windows Commands

The command shell is a separate software program that provides direct communication between the user and the operating system. [Command-line reference A-Z](http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/ntcmds.mspx?mfr=true)

    %OS%                Returns the operating system name. Windows 2000 displays the operating system as Windows_NT.
    %COMPUTERNAME%      Returns the name of the computer.
    %USERNAME%          Returns the name of the user who is currently logged on.
    %DATE%              Returns the current date. Uses the same format as the date /t command. Generated by Cmd.exe.
    %TIME%              Returns the current time. Uses the same format as the time /t command. Generated by Cmd.exe. For more information about the time command, see Time
    %PATH%              Specifies the search path for executable files.
    %CD%                Returns the current directory string.

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/ntcmds_shelloverview.mspx?mfr=true>)

###cls

Clears the Command Prompt window.

    $ cls
    $ cls /?                    #Display help at the command prompt.
    
####Parameters

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/cls.mspx?mfr=true>)

###call

Calls one batch program from another without stopping the parent batch program. The call command accepts labels as the target of the call. Call has no effect at the command-line when used outside of a script or batch file. 

    call [[Drive:][Path] FileName [BatchParameters]] [:label [arguments]]
 
####Parameters

    [Drive:][Path] FileName : Specifies the location and name of the batch program you want to call. The FileName parameter must have a .bat or .cmd extension.

    BatchParameters : Specifies any command-line information required by the batch program, including command-line options, file names, batch parameters (that is, %0 through %9), or variables (for example, %baud%).

    :label : Specifies the label to which you want a batch program control to jump. By using call with this parameter, you create a new batch file context and pass control to the statement after the specified label. The first time the end of the batch file is encountered (that is, after jumping to the label), control returns to the statement after the call statement. The second time the end of the batch file is encountered, the batch script is exited. For a description of the goto :eof extension that allows you to return from a batch script, see Related Topics.

    arguments : Specifies any command-line information that you pass to the new instance of the batch program that begins at :label, including command-line options, file names, batch parameters (that is, %1 through %9), or variables (for example, %baud%).

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt.

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/call.mspx?mfr=true>)

###chcp

Displays the number of the active console code page, or changes the console's active console code page. Used without parameters, chcp displays the number of the active console code page.

    chcp [nnn]
    
####Parameters

    nnn : Specifies the code page. The following table lists each code page supported and its country/region or language: 
    
    Code page	Country/region or language
    437         United States
    936         ANSI/OEM Simplified Chinese (PRC, Singapore); Chinese Simplified (GB2312)
    65001       Unicode (UTF-8)

- <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/chcp.mspx?mfr=true>
- <http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/dd317756%28v=vs.85%29.aspx>

###color

Changes the Command Prompt window foreground and background colors for the current session. Used without parameters, color restores the default Command Prompt window foreground and background colors.

    color [fb]
    
####Parameters

    fb : Sets the foreground f and background g colors. The following tables lists valid hexadecimal digits that you can use as the values for f and g. 

    Value	Color
    0       Black
    1       Blue
    2       Green
    3       Aqua
    4       Red
    5       Purple
    6       Yellow
    7       White
    8       Gray
    9       Light blue
    A       Light green
    B       Light aqua
    C       Light red
    D       Light purple
    E       Light yellow
    F       Bright white

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/color.mspx?mfr=true>)

###del(erase)

Deletes specified files.

    del [Drive:][Path] FileName [ ...] [/p] [/f] [/s] [/q] [/a[:attributes]]
    erase [Drive:][Path] FileName [ ...] [/p] [/f] [/s] [/q] [/a[:attributes]]
    
####Parameters

    [Drive:][Path] FileName : Specifies the location and name of the file or set of files you want to delete. Filename is required. You can use multiple file names. Separate file names with spaces, commas, or semicolons.

    /p : Prompts you for confirmation before deleting the specified file.

    /f : Forces deletion of read-only files.

    /s : Deletes specified files from the current directory and all subdirectories. Displays the names of the files as they are being deleted.

    /q : Specifies quiet mode. You are not prompted for delete confirmation.

    /a : Deletes files based on specified attributes.


(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/del.mspx?mfr=true>)

###dir

Displays a list of a directory's files and subdirectories.

    dir [Drive:][Path][FileName] [...] [/p] [/q] [/w] [/d] [/a[[:]attributes]][/o[[:]SortOrder]] [/t[[:]TimeField]] [/s] [/b] [/l] [/n] [/x] [/c] [/4]
    
####Parameters

    [Drive:][Path] : Specifies the drive and directory for which you want to see a listing.

    [FileName] : Specifies a particular file or group of files for which you want to see a listing.

    /p : Displays one screen of the listing at a time. To see the next screen, press any key on the keyboard.

    /q : Displays file ownership information.

    /w : Displays the listing in wide format, with as many as five file names or directory names on each line.

    /d : Same as /w but files are sorted by column.

    /a [[:] attributes] : Displays only the names of those directories and files with the attributes you specify.

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/dir.mspx?mfr=true>)

###echo
Turns the command-echoing feature on or off, or displays a message. Used without parameters, echo displays the current echo setting.

    echo [{on|off}][message]
    @echo off   #turn echo off and do not echo the echo command
    
####Parameters

    {on|off} : Specifies whether to turn the command-echoing feature on or off.

    message : Specifies text you want to display on the screen.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 


(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/echo.mspx?mfr=true>)

###exit

Exits the current batch script or the Cmd.exe program (that is, the command interpreter) and returns to the program that started Cmd.exe or to the Program Manager.

    exit [/b] [ExitCode]

####Parameters

    /b : Exits the current batch script.

    ExitCode : Specifies a numeric number.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/exit.mspx?mfr=true>)

###find

Searches for a specific string of text in a file or files. After searching the specified file or files, find displays any lines of text that contain the specified string.

    find [/v] [/c] [/n] [/i] "string" [[Drive:][Path]FileName[...]]
    
####Parameters

    /v : Displays all lines that do not contain the specified string.

    /c : Counts the lines that contain the specified string and displays the total.

    /n : Precedes each line with the file's line number.

    /i : Specifies that the search is not case-sensitive.

    "string" : Required. Specifies the group of characters that you want to search for. You must enclose string in quotation marks (that is, "string").

    [Drive:][Path] FileName : Specifies the location and name of the file in which to search for the specified string.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt.
    
    Examples
    
    for %f in (*.bat) do find "PROMPT" %f       #To search the current directory for files that have the extension .bat and that contain the string "PROMPT"
    
    dir c:\ /s /b | find "CPU"                  #To search your hard disk to find and display the file names on drive C that contain the string "CPU"

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/find.mspx?mfr=true>)

###goto

Within a batch program, directs Windows XP to a line identified by a label. When the label is found, it processes the commands that begin on the next line.

    goto label

####Parameters

    label : Specifies the line in a batch program that you want to go to.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt.
    
    Remarks
    
    goto :EOF           #transfer control to the end of the current batch script file and exit the batch script file without defining a label.

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/goto.mspx?mfr=true>)

###if

Performs conditional processing in batch programs.

    if [not] errorlevel number command [else expression]

    if [not] string1==string2 command [else expression]

    if [not] exist FileName command [else expression]

    If command extensions are enabled, use the following syntax:

    if [/i] string1 CompareOp string2 command [else expression]

    if cmdextversion number command [else expression]

    if defined variable command [else expression]
    
####Parameters

    not : Specifies that the command should be carried out only if the condition is false.

    errorlevel number : Specifies a true condition only if the previous program run by Cmd.exe returned an exit code equal to or greater than number.

    command : Specifies the command that should be carried out if the preceding condition is met.

    string1==string2 : Specifies a true condition only if string1 and string2 are the same. These values can be literal strings or batch variables (for example, %1). You do not need to use quotation marks around literal strings.

    exist FileName : Specifies a true condition if FileName exists.

    CompareOp : Specifies a three-letter comparison operator. The following table lists valid values for CompareOp.
    
    Operator	Description

    EQU         equal to
    NEQ         not equal to
    LSS         less than
    LEQ         less than or equal to
    GTR         greater than
    GEQ         greater than or equal to

    /i : Forces string comparisons to ignore case. You can use /i on the string1==string2 form of if. These comparisons are generic, in that if both string1 and string2 are both comprised of all numeric digits, the strings are converted to numbers and a numeric comparison is performed.

    cmdextversion number : Specifies a true condition only if the internal version number associated with the Command Extensions feature of Cmd.exe is equal to or greater than number. The first version is 1. It is incremented by one when significant enhancements are added to the command extensions. The cmdextversion conditional is never true when command extensions are disabled (by default, command extensions are enabled).

    defined variable : Specifies a true condition if variable is defined.

    expression : Specifies a command-line command and any parameters to be passed to the command in an else clause.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/if.mspx?mfr=true>)

###label

Creates, changes, or deletes the volume label (that is, the name) of a disk. Used without parameters, label changes the current volume label or deletes the existing label.

    label [Drive:][label]

    label [/MP][volume][label]

####Parameters

    Drive: : Specifies the drive letter (followed by a colon) of the disk you want to name.

    label : Specifies the name for the volume.

    /MP : Specifies that the volume should be treated as a mount point or volume name.

    volume : Specifies the drive letter (followed by a colon), mount point, or volume name. If a volume name is specified, the /MP parameter is unnecessary.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/label.mspx?mfr=true>)

###mode

Displays system status, changes system settings, or reconfigures ports or devices.

    mode comm[:] [baud=b] [parity=p] [data=d] [stop=s] [to={on|off}] [xon={on|off}] [odsr={on|off}] [octs={on|off}] [dtr={on|off|hs}] [rts={on|off|hs|tg}] [idsr={on|off}]

To configure a serial communications port.

####Parameters

    comm[:] : Specifies the number of the asynchronous-communications (COM) port.

    baud=b : Specifies the transmission rate in bits per second. The following table lists valid abbreviations for b and its related rate.
    Value	Rate
    
    11      110 baud
    
    15      150 baud

    30      300 baud

    60      600 baud

    12      1200 baud

    24       2400 baud

    48      4800 baud

    96      9600 baud

    19      19,200 baud

    parity=p : Specifies how the system uses the parity bit to check for transmission errors. The following table lists valid p values. The default value is e. Not all computers support the values m and s.
    Value	Description
    
    n       none
    
    e       even
    
    o       odd

    m       mark

    s       space

    data=d : Specifies the number of data bits in a character. Valid values for d are in the range 5 through 8. The default value is 7. Not all computers support the values 5 and 6.

    stop=s : Specifies the number of stop bits that define the end of a character: 1, 1.5, or 2. If the baud rate is 110, the default value is 2. Otherwise, the default value is 1. Not all computers support the value 1.5.

    to={on|off} : Specifies whether infinite time-out processing is on or off. The default is off.

    xon={on|off} : Specifies whether the xon or xoff protocol for data-flow control is on or off.

    odsr={on|off} : Specifies whether output handshaking that uses the Data Set Ready (DSR) circuit is on or off.

    octs={on|off} : Specifies whether output handshaking that uses the Clear To Send (CTS) circuit is on or off.

    dtr={on|off|hs} : Specifies whether the Data Terminal Ready (DTR) circuit is on or off, or set to handshake.

    rts={on|off|hs|tg} : Specifies whether the Request To Send (RTS) circuit is set to on, off, handshake, or toggle.

    idsr={on|off} : Specifies whether the DSR circuit sensitivity is on or off.

    /?: Displays help at the command prompt. 

To configure a device

    mode [device] [/status]                 # Requests the status of any redirected parallel printers.abbreviate /status as /sta
    mode lptn[:]=comm[:]
    mode device codepage select=yyy         #You can abbreviate codepage and select as cp and sel.
    mode device codepage [/status]          #/status: Displays the numbers of the current code pages selected for the specified device.
    mode con[:] [cols=c] [lines=n]          #con[:] : Required. Indicates that the change is to the command prompt window. 
    mode con[:] [rate=r delay=d]            #con[:] : Required. Refers to the keyboard. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/mode.mspx?mfr=true>)

###more

Displays one screen of output at a time.

    command | more [/c] [/p] [/s] [/tn] [+n]

    more [[/c] [/p] [/s] [/tn] [+n]] < [Drive:] [Path] FileName

    more [/c] [/p] [/s] [/tn] [+n] [files]
    
####Parameters

    [Drive:] [Path] FileName : Specifies the file to display.

    command : Specifies a command for which you want to display the output.

    /c : Clears screen before displaying page.

    /p : Expands form-feed characters.

    /s : Changes multiple blank lines to one blank line.

    /tn : Changes tabs to the number of spaces specified by n.

    +n : Displays first file beginning at the line specified by n.

    files : Specifies list of files to display. Separate file names with a space.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/more.mspx?mfr=true>)

###move

Moves one or more files from one directory to the specified directory.

    move [{/y|/-y}] [Source] [target]
    
####Parameters

    /y : Suppresses prompting to confirm you want to overwrite an existing destination file.

    /-y : Causes prompting to confirm you want to overwrite an existing destination file.

    Source : Specifies the path and name of the file or files to move. If you want to move or rename a directory, Source should be the current directory path and name.

    target : Specifies the path and name to move files to. If you want to move or rename a directory, target should be the desired directory path and name.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/move.mspx?mfr=true>)

###net services

####Net services overview

Many services use networking commands that begin with the word net. These net commands have some common properties:

- You can see a list of all available net commands by typing net /? at a command prompt.
- You can get syntax help at the command line for a net command by typing net help command at a command prompt. For example, for help with the net accounts command, type the following:

    net help accounts
    
- All net commands accept /y (yes) and /n (no) command-line options. For example, the net stop server command prompts you to confirm that you want to stop all dependent Server services, while net stop server /y, by automatically answering yes, bypasses the confirmation prompt and shuts down the Server service.
- If a service name contains spaces, use quotation marks around the text (that is, "Service Name"). For example, the following command starts the net logon service:

    net start "net logon"

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/net_command_options.mspx?mfr=true>)

####Net services commands

    net help command : Displays help for the specified net command.

#####Net config

Displays the configurable services that are running, or displays and changes settings for a Server service or a Workstation service. Used without parameters, net config displays a list of configurable services.

    net config [{server|workstation}]
    
####Parameters

    server : Displays and allows you to make changes to the settings for the Server service while the service is running.

    workstation : Displays and allows you to make changes to the settings for the Workstation service while the service is running.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/net_config_server.mspx?mfr=true>)

#####Net start

Starts a service. Used without parameters, net start displays a list of services that are currently operating.

    net start [service]
    
####Parameters

    service : Starts the specified service. The following table lists values for service. 
    
    alerter         Starts the Alerter service.
    browser         Starts the Computer Browser service.
    clipbook        Starts the ClipBook service.
    messenger       Starts the Messenger service.
    schedule        Starts the Task Scheduler service.

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/net_start.mspx?mfr=true>)

#####Net stop

Stops a running service.

    net stop service

####Parameters

    service : Stops the specified service.

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/net_stop.mspx?mfr=true>)

###Pause

Suspends processing of a batch program and displays a message prompting the user to press any key to continue.

    pause

####Parameters

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/pause.mspx?mfr=true>)

###Prompt

Changes the Cmd.exe prompt.

    prompt [text]

####Parameters

    text : Specifies any text and information you want included in your system prompt.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/prompt.mspx?mfr=true>)

###Reg

Adds, changes, and displays registry subkey information and values in registry entries.

    reg add KeyName [/v EntryName|/ve] [/t DataType] [/s separator] [/d value] [/f]
    
####Parameters

    KeyName : Specifies the full path of the subkey. For remote computers, include the computer name before the path of the subkey in the \\ComputerName\PathToSubkey format. Omitting ComputerName causes the operation to default to the local computer. Start the path with the appropriate subtree. The valid subtrees are HKLM, HKCU, HKCR, HKU, and HKCC.

    /v EntryName : Specifies the name of the entry to be added under the specified subkey.

    /ve : Specifies that the entry that is added to the registry has a null value.

    /t DataType : Specifies the data type for the value of the entry. DataType can be one of the following:

    REG_SZ

    REG_MULTI_SZ

    REG_DWORD_BIG_ENDIAN

    REG_DWORD

    REG_BINARY

    REG_DWORD_LITTLE_ENDIAN

    REG_LINK

    REG_FULL_RESOURCE_DESCRIPTOR

    REG_EXPAND_SZ

    /s separator : Specifies the character used to separate multiple instances of data. Used when REG_MULTI_SZ is specified as the data type and more than one entry needs to be listed. If not specified, the default separator is \0.

    /d value : Specifies the value for the new registry entry.

    /f : Adds the subkey or entry without asking for confirmation.

    /?: Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/reg.mspx?mfr=true>)

###Rem

Enables you to include comments (remarks) in a batch file or in your configuration files.

    rem [comment]

####Parameters

    comment : Specifies any string of characters you want to include as a comment.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/rem.mspx?mfr=true>)

###Rename (ren)

Changes the name of a file or a set of files.

    rename [Drive:][Path] filename1 filename2

    ren [Drive:][Path] filename1 filename2
    
####Parameters

    [Drive:][Path] filename1 : Specifies the location and name of the file or set of files you want to rename.

    filename2 : Specifies the new name for the file. If you use wildcards (* and ?), filename2 specifies the new names for the files. You cannot specify a new drive or path when renaming files.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/rename.mspx?mfr=true>)

###Replace

Replaces files in the destination directory with files in the source directory that have the same name. You can also use replace to add unique file names to the destination directory.

    replace [drive1:][path1] FileName [drive2:][path2] [/a] [/p] [/r] [/w]

    replace [drive1:][path1] FileName [drive2:][path2] [/p] [/r] [/s] [/w] [/u]
    
####Parameters

    [drive1:][path1] FileName : Specifies the location and name of the source file or set of files.

    [drive2:][path2] : Specifies the location of the destination file. You cannot specify a file name for files you replace. If you specify neither a drive nor a directory, replace uses the current drive and directory as the destination.

    /a : Adds new files to the destination directory instead of replacing existing files. You cannot use this command-line option with the /s or /u command-line option.

    /p : Prompts you for confirmation before replacing a destination file or adding a source file.

    /r : Replaces read-only files as well as unprotected files. If you do not specify this command-line option but attempt to replace a read-only file, an error results and stops the replacement operation.

    /w : Waits for you to insert a disk before replace begins to search for source files. If you do not specify /w, replace begins replacing or adding files immediately after you press ENTER.

    /s : Searches all subdirectories of the destination directory and replaces matching files. You cannot use the /s command-line option with the /a command-line option. The replace command does not search subdirectories specified in path1.

    /u : Replaces (updates) only those files on the destination directory that are older than those in the source directory. You cannot use the /u command-line option with the /a command-line option.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/replace.mspx?mfr=true>)

###Rmdir (rd)

Removes (that is, deletes) a directory.

    rmdir [Drive:]Path [/s] [/q]

    rd [Drive:]Path [/s] [/q]
    
####Parameters

    [Drive:]Path : Specifies the location and name of the directory that you want to delete.

    /s : Removes the specified directory and all subdirectories including any files. Use /s to remove a tree.

    /q : Runs rmdir in quiet mode. Deletes directories without confirmation.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/rmdir.mspx?mfr=true>)

###SC

Communicates with the Service Controller and installed services. SC.exe retrieves and sets control information about services. You can use SC.exe for testing and debugging service programs. Service properties stored in the registry can be set to control how service applications are started at boot time and run as background processes. SC.exe parameters can configure a specific service, retrieve the current status of a service, as well as stop and start a service. You can create batch files that call various SC.exe commands to automate the startup or shutdown sequence of services. SC.exe provides capabilities similar to Services in the Administrative Tools item in Control Panel. 

    sc [ServerName] config [ServiceName] [type= {own|share|kernel|filesys|rec|adapt|interact type= {own|share}}] [start= {boot|system|auto|demand|disabled}] [error= {normal|severe|critical|ignore}] [binpath= BinaryPathName] [group= LoadOrderGroup] [tag= {yes|no}] [depend= dependencies] [obj= {AccountName|ObjectName}] [displayname= DisplayName] [password= Password]

####Parameters

    ServerName : Specifies the name of the remote server on which the service is located. The name must use the Universal Naming Convention (UNC) format ("\\myserver"). To run SC.exe locally, ignore this parameter.

    ServiceName : Specifies the service name returned by the getkeyname operation.

    type= {own|share|kernel|filesys|rec|adapt|interact type= {own|share}} : Specifies the service type. 

    start= {boot|system|auto|demand|disabled} : Specifies the start type for the service. 

    error= {normal|severe|critical|ignore} : Specifies the severity of the error if the service fails to start during boot. 

    binpath= BinaryPathName : Specifies a path to the service binary file.

    group= LoadOrderGroup : Specifies the name of the group of which this service is a member. The list of groups is stored in the registry in the HKLM\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\ServiceGroupOrder subkey. The default is null.

    tag= {yes|no} : Specifies whether or not to obtain a TagID from the CreateService call. Tags are only used for boot-start and system-start drivers.

    depend= dependencies : Specifies the names of services or groups which must start before this service. The names are separated by forward slashes (/).

    obj= {AccountName|ObjectName} : Specifies a name of an account in which a service will run, or specifies a name of the Windows driver object in which the driver will run. The default is LocalSystem.

    displayname= DisplayName : Specifies a friendly, meaningful name that can be used in user-interface programs to identify the service to users. For example, the subkey name of one service is wuauserv, which is not be helpful to the user, and the display name is Automatic Updates.

    password= Password : Specifies a password. This is required if an account other than the LocalSystem account is used.

    /?: Displays help at the command prompt.

####Remarks

    Without a space between a parameter and its value (for example, type= own, not type=own), the operation will fail.

####Examples

    The following example shows how you can use the sc config command:

    sc config NewService binpath= "ntsd -d c:\windows\system32\NewServ.exe"

    sc continue

    Sends a CONTINUE control request to a service in order to resume a paused service.

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/sc.mspx?mfr=true>)

###Set

Displays, sets, or removes environment variables. Used without parameters, set displays the current environment settings.

    set [[/a [expression]] [/p [variable=]] string]

####Parameters

    /a : Sets string to a numerical expression that is evaluated.

    /p : Sets the value of variable to a line of input.

    variable : Specifies the variable you want to set or modify.

    string : Specifies the string you want to associate with the specified variable.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

Use the set command to create, change, delete, or display environment variables. The set command alters variables in the current shell environment only.

    $ set VariableName          #To view a variable
    $ set variablename=value    #To add a variable
    $ set VariableName=         #To delete a variable

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/set.mspx?mfr=true>)

###Shutdown

Allows you to shut down or restart a local or remote computer. Used without parameters, shutdown will logoff the current user.
Syntax

    shutdown [{-l|-s|-r|-a}] [-f] [-m [\\ComputerName]] [-t xx] [-c "message"] [-d[u][p]:xx:yy]

####Parameters

    -l : Logs off the current user, this is also the defualt. -m ComputerName takes precedence.

    -s : Shuts down the local computer.

    -r : Reboots after shutdown.

    -a : Aborts shutdown. Ignores other parameters, except -l and ComputerName. You can only use -a during the time-out period.

    -f : Forces running applications to close.

    -m [\\ComputerName] : Specifies the computer that you want to shut down.

    -t xx : Sets the timer for system shutdown in xx seconds. The default is 20 seconds.

    -c "message" : Specifies a message to be displayed in the Message area of the System Shutdown window. You can use a maximum of 127 characters. You must enclose the message in quotation marks.

    -d [u][p]:xx:yy : Lists the reason code for the shutdown. The following table lists the different values.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

####Examples

To shut down \\MyServer in 60 seconds, force running applications to close, restart the computer after shutdown, indicate a user code, indicate that the shutdown is planned, log major reason code 125, and log minor reason code 1, type:

    shutdown -r -f -m \\MyServer -t 60 -d up:125:1 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/shutdown.mspx?mfr=true>)

###Start

Starts a separate Command Prompt window to run a specified program or command. Used without parameters, start opens a second command prompt window.
Syntax

    start ["title"] [/dPath] [/i] [/min] [/max] [{/separate | /shared}] [{/low | /normal | /high | /realtime | /abovenormal | belownormal}] [/wait] [/b] [FileName] [parameters]

####Parameters

    "title" : Specifies the title to display in Command Prompt window title bar.

    /dPath : Specifies the startup directory.

    /i : Passes the Cmd.exe startup environment to the new Command Prompt window.

    /min : Starts a new minimized Command Prompt window.

    /max : Starts a new maximized Command Prompt window.

    /separate : Starts 16-bit programs in a separate memory space.

    /shared : Starts 16-bit programs in a shared memory space.

    /low : Starts an application in the idle priority class.

    /normal : Starts an application in the normal priority class.

    /high : Starts an application in the high priority class.

    /realtime : Starts an application in the realtime priority class.

    /abovenormal : Starts an application in the abovenormal priority class.

    /belownormal : Starts an application in the belownormal priority class.

    /wait : Starts an application and waits for it to end.

    /b : Starts an application without opening a new Command Prompt window. CTRL+C handling is ignored unless the application enables CTRL+C processing. Use CTRL+BREAK to interrupt the application.

    FileName : Specifies the command or program to start.

    parameters : Specifies parameters to pass to the command or program. 

####Examples

To start the Myapp program at the command prompt and retain use of the current Command Prompt window, type:

    start myapp

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/start.mspx?mfr=true>)

###TCP/IP utilities and services

TCP/IP utilities offer network connections to other computers, such as UNIX workstations. You must have the TCP/IP network protocol installed to use the TCP/IP utilities.

####Nslookup

Displays information that you can use to diagnose Domain Name System (DNS) infrastructure. Before using this tool, you should be familiar with how DNS works. The Nslookup command-line tool is available only if you have installed the TCP/IP protocol.

    nslookup [-SubCommand ...] [{ComputerToFind| [-Server]}]
    
#####Parameters

    -SubCommand ... : Specifies one or more nslookup subcommands as a command-line option. For a list of subcommands, see Related Topics.

    ComputerToFind : Looks up information for ComputerToFind using the current default DNS name server, if no other server is specified. To look up a computer not in the current DNS domain, append a period to the name.

    -Server : Specifies to use this server as the DNS name server. If you omit -Server, the default DNS name server is used.

    {help|?} : Displays a short summary of nslookup subcommands. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/nslookup.mspx?mfr=true>)

####Ping

Verifies IP-level connectivity to another TCP/IP computer by sending Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) Echo Request messages. The receipt of corresponding Echo Reply messages are displayed, along with round-trip times. Ping is the primary TCP/IP command used to troubleshoot connectivity, reachability, and name resolution. Used without parameters, ping displays help.

    ping [-t] [-a] [-n Count] [-l Size] [-f] [-i TTL] [-v TOS] [-r Count] [-s Count] [{-j HostList | -k HostList}] [-w Timeout] [TargetName]
    
#####Parameters

    -t : Specifies that ping continue sending Echo Request messages to the destination until interrupted. To interrupt and display statistics, press CTRL-BREAK. To interrupt and quit ping, press CTRL-C.

    -a : Specifies that reverse name resolution is performed on the destination IP address. If this is successful, ping displays the corresponding host name.

    -n Count : Specifies the number of Echo Request messages sent. The default is 4.

    -l Size : Specifies the length, in bytes, of the Data field in the Echo Request messages sent. The default is 32. The maximum size is 65,527.

    -f : Specifies that Echo Request messages are sent with the Don't Fragment flag in the IP header set to 1. The Echo Request message cannot be fragmented by routers in the path to the destination. This parameter is useful for troubleshooting path Maximum Transmission Unit (PMTU) problems.

    -i TTL : Specifies the value of the TTL field in the IP header for Echo Request messages sent. The default is the default TTL value for the host. For Windows XP hosts, this is typically 128. The maximum TTL is 255.

    -v TOS : Specifies the value of the Type of Service (TOS) field in the IP header for Echo Request messages sent. The default is 0. TOS is specified as a decimal value from 0 to 255.

    -r Count : Specifies that the Record Route option in the IP header is used to record the path taken by the Echo Request message and corresponding Echo Reply message. Each hop in the path uses an entry in the Record Route option. If possible, specify a Count that is equal to or greater than the number of hops between the source and destination. The Count must be a minimum of 1 and a maximum of 9.

    -s Count : Specifies that the Internet Timestamp option in the IP header is used to record the time of arrival for the Echo Request message and corresponding Echo Reply message for each hop. The Count must be a minimum of 1 and a maximum of 4.

    -j HostList : Specifies that the Echo Request messages use the Loose Source Route option in the IP header with the set of intermediate destinations specified in HostList. With loose source routing, successive intermediate destinations can be separated by one or multiple routers. The maximum number of addresses or names in the host list is 9. The host list is a series of IP addresses (in dotted decimal notation) separated by spaces.

    -k HostList : Specifies that the Echo Request messages use the Strict Source Route option in the IP header with the set of intermediate destinations specified in HostList. With strict source routing, the next intermediate destination must be directly reachable (it must be a neighbor on an interface of the router). The maximum number of addresses or names in the host list is 9. The host list is a series of IP addresses (in dotted decimal notation) separated by spaces.

    -w Timeout : Specifies the amount of time, in milliseconds, to wait for the Echo Reply message that corresponds to a given Echo Request message to be received. If the Echo Reply message is not received within the time-out, the "Request timed out" error message is displayed. The default time-out is 4000 (4 seconds).

    TargetName : Specifies the destination, which is identified either by IP address or host name.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/ping.mspx?mfr=true>)

####ipconfig

Displays all current TCP/IP network configuration values and refreshes Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) and Domain Name System (DNS) settings. Used without parameters, ipconfig displays the IP address, subnet mask, and default gateway for all adapters.

    ipconfig [/all] [/renew [Adapter]] [/release [Adapter]] [/flushdns] [/displaydns] [/registerdns] [/showclassid Adapter] [/setclassid Adapter [ClassID]]

#####Parameters

    /all : Displays the full TCP/IP configuration for all adapters. Without this parameter, ipconfig displays only the IP address, subnet mask, and default gateway values for each adapter. Adapters can represent physical interfaces, such as installed network adapters, or logical interfaces, such as dial-up connections.

    /renew [Adapter] : Renews DHCP configuration for all adapters (if an adapter is not specified) or for a specific adapter if the Adapter parameter is included. This parameter is available only on computers with adapters that are configured to obtain an IP address automatically. To specify an adapter name, type the adapter name that appears when you use ipconfig without parameters.

    /release [Adapter] : Sends a DHCPRELEASE message to the DHCP server to release the current DHCP configuration and discard the IP address configuration for either all adapters (if an adapter is not specified) or for a specific adapter if the Adapter parameter is included. This parameter disables TCP/IP for adapters configured to obtain an IP address automatically. To specify an adapter name, type the adapter name that appears when you use ipconfig without parameters.

    /flushdns : Flushes and resets the contents of the DNS client resolver cache. During DNS troubleshooting, you can use this procedure to discard negative cache entries from the cache, as well as any other entries that have been added dynamically.

    /displaydns : Displays the contents of the DNS client resolver cache, which includes both entries preloaded from the local Hosts file and any recently obtained resource records for name queries resolved by the computer. The DNS Client service uses this information to resolve frequently queried names quickly, before querying its configured DNS servers.

    /registerdns : Initiates manual dynamic registration for the DNS names and IP addresses that are configured at a computer. You can use this parameter to troubleshoot a failed DNS name registration or resolve a dynamic update problem between a client and the DNS server without rebooting the client computer. The DNS settings in the advanced properties of the TCP/IP protocol determine which names are registered in DNS.

    /showclassid Adapter : Displays the DHCP class ID for a specified adapter. To see the DHCP class ID for all adapters, use the asterisk (*) wildcard character in place of Adapter. This parameter is available only on computers with adapters that are configured to obtain an IP address automatically.

    /setclassid Adapter [ClassID] : Configures the DHCP class ID for a specified adapter. To set the DHCP class ID for all adapters, use the asterisk (*) wildcard character in place of Adapter. This parameter is available only on computers with adapters that are configured to obtain an IP address automatically. If a DHCP class ID is not specified, the current class ID is removed.

    /?: Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/ipconfig.mspx?mfr=true>)

####Route

Displays and modifies the entries in the local IP routing table. Used without parameters, route displays help.

    route [-f] [-p] [Command [Destination] [mask Netmask] [Gateway] [metric Metric]] [if Interface]]
    
#####Parameters

    -f : Clears the routing table of all entries that are not host routes (routes with a netmask of 255.255.255.255), the loopback network route (routes with a destination of 127.0.0.0 and a netmask of 255.0.0.0), or a multicast route (routes with a destination of 224.0.0.0 and a netmask of 240.0.0.0). If this is used in conjunction with one of the commands (such as add, change, or delete), the table is cleared prior to running the command.

    -p : When used with the add command, the specified route is added to the registry and is used to initialize the IP routing table whenever the TCP/IP protocol is started.
    
#####Examples

    route print         #To display the entire contents of the IP routing table
    route print 10.*    #To display the routes in the IP routing table that begin with 10.

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/route.mspx?mfr=true>)

####Netstat

Displays active TCP connections, ports on which the computer is listening, Ethernet statistics, the IP routing table, IPv4 statistics (for the IP, ICMP, TCP, and UDP protocols), and IPv6 statistics (for the IPv6, ICMPv6, TCP over IPv6, and UDP over IPv6 protocols). Used without parameters, netstat displays active TCP connections.

    netstat [-a] [-e] [-n] [-o] [-p Protocol] [-r] [-s] [Interval]
    
#####Parameters

    -a : Displays all active TCP connections and the TCP and UDP ports on which the computer is listening.

    -e : Displays Ethernet statistics, such as the number of bytes and packets sent and received. This parameter can be combined with -s.

    -n : Displays active TCP connections, however, addresses and port numbers are expressed numerically and no attempt is made to determine names.

    -o : Displays active TCP connections and includes the process ID (PID) for each connection. You can find the application based on the PID on the Processes tab in Windows Task Manager. This parameter can be combined with -a, -n, and -p.

    -p Protocol : Shows connections for the protocol specified by Protocol. In this case, the Protocol can be tcp, udp, tcpv6, or udpv6. If this parameter is used with -s to display statistics by protocol, Protocol can be tcp, udp, icmp, ip, tcpv6, udpv6, icmpv6, or ipv6.

    -s : Displays statistics by protocol. By default, statistics are shown for the TCP, UDP, ICMP, and IP protocols. If the IPv6 protocol for Windows XP is installed, statistics are shown for the TCP over IPv6, UDP over IPv6, ICMPv6, and IPv6 protocols. The -p parameter can be used to specify a set of protocols.

    -r : Displays the contents of the IP routing table. This is equivalent to the route print command.

    Interval : Redisplays the selected information every Interval seconds. Press CTRL+C to stop the redisplay. If this parameter is omitted, netstat prints the selected information only once.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/netstat.mspx?mfr=true>)



###Time

Displays or sets the system time. Used without parameters, time displays the system time and prompts you to enter a new time.
Syntax

    time [/t] [/time] [hours:[minutes[:seconds[.hundredths]]][{A|P}]]

####Parameters

    /t : Displays the current system time, without prompting you to enter a new time.

    /time : Same as /t.

    hours : Specifies the hour. Valid values are in the range 0 through 23.

    minutes : Specifies minutes. Valid values are in the range 0 through 59.

    seconds : Specifies seconds. Valid values are in the range 0 through 59.

    hundredths : Specifies hundredths of a second. Valid values are in the range 0 through 99.

    {A|P} : Specifies A.M or P.M. for the 12-hour time format. If you type a valid 12-hour time but do not type A or P, time uses A for A.M.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/time.mspx?mfr=true>)

###Telnet commands

The telnet commands allow you to communicate with a remote computer that is using the Telnet protocol. You can run telnet without parameters in order to enter the telnet context, indicated by the Telnet prompt (telnet>). From the Telnet prompt, use the following commands to manage a computer running Telnet Client.

    telnet [\\RemoteServer]

####Parameters

    \\RemoteServer : Specifies the name of the server to which you want to connect.

    /?: Displays help at the command prompt.

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/telnet_commands.mspx?mfr=true>)

###Title

Creates a title for the command prompt window.

    title [string]

####Parameters

    string : Specifies the title for the command prompt window.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/title.mspx?mfr=true>)

###Tree

Graphically displays the directory structure of a path or of the disk in a drive.

    tree [Drive:][Path] [/f] [/a]

####Parameters

    Drive: : Specifies the drive that contains the disk for which you want to display the directory structure.

    Path : Specifies the directory for which you want to display the directory structure.

    /f : Displays the names of the files in each directory.

    /a : Specifies that tree is to use text characters instead of graphic characters to show the lines linking subdirectories.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt. 

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/tree.mspx?mfr=true>)

###Type

Displays the contents of a text file. Use the type command to view a text file without modifying it.
Syntax

    type [Drive:][Path] FileName

####Parameters

    [Drive:][Path] FileName : Specifies the location and name of the file or files that you want to view. Separate multiple file names with spaces.

    /? : Displays help at the command prompt.

####Examples

    type holiday.mar            #To display the contents of a file named Holiday.mar

    type holiday.mar | more     #To display the contents of a lengthy file one screen at a time

(Read more: <http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/type.mspx?mfr=true>)

